src/jbake/content/privacy.md, before:

title=Privacy policy
type=plain
status=published
lang=en
~~~~~~


The purpose of this privacy policy is to inform you of which data
we process and store when you visit our website or use our service.
This includes details on our use of cookies.

Read the following sections to learn about:

* which data we store and our reasons for doing so,
* where we store your data, and
* how we protect your data.

Last revised on July 1, 2019. The latest version of this privacy policy
can be obtained at https://www.renjin.org/about/privacy.html.

## Definitions

This privacy policy uses the following terms:

* “We” (also “us” or “our”) are BeDataDriven B.V., having business at
  Binckhorstlaan 36, 2516 BE The Hague, Netherlands. We are listed in the
  Business Register of the Dutch Chamber of Commerce with number 61548278.
* “The website” is the collection of web pages publicly accessible via https://www.renjin.org and its subdomains (e.g. http://docs.renjin.org).
* “You” (also “your”) are a visitor to the website.

## Which data we store and why

When you visit the website, we store data in your browser and on our
servers. This section details which data we store and why we store this data.

We use cookies to track your usage of the website and the platform,
see the "Cookies" section below for more details on which cookies we use.

## Where we store your data

The platform runs on infrastructure provided as part of the Google Cloud
Platform. This infrastructure, which includes servers, databases
and file storage, is supported by data center locations around the world.
We have opted to process and store your data exclusively on
Google’s data centers located within the European Union.
See https://www.google.com/about/datacenters/inside/locations/
for a full list of data center locations.

## How we protect your data

In general we observe and test against the guidelines provided by
the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). A full list of
guidelines for a variety of topics related to security can be
found at https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets.

## Cookies
When you visit the website you consent to us placing cookies in your
browser. We keep the number of cookies which we store to an absolute
minimum and we do not store third-party cookies.

We use Google Analytics to track the number of visitors to the website.
We use this information to understand how the website
are used with the goal to improve its usability and performance.

Google Analytics stores two cookies in your browser to identify
you as a unique visitor to the website. This information is non-personal
and we have opted to anonymize your IP address before it is stored by
Google. The data which is obtained from your visits to our website
are not used by Google for any other purpose other than generating
visitor reports for us. We also do not use any of the advertising
features of Google Analytics therefore no data is shared with any
third party.

Commit message:

update on privacy regarding personal data submitted via Mailchimp

src/jbake/content/privacy.md, after:

title=Privacy policy
type=plain
status=published
lang=en
~~~~~~


The purpose of this privacy policy is to inform you of which data
we process and store when you visit our website or use our service.
This includes details on our use of cookies.

Read the following sections to learn about:

* which data we store and our reasons for doing so,
* where we store your data, and
* how we protect your data.

Last revised on July 1, 2019. The latest version of this privacy policy
can be obtained at https://www.renjin.org/about/privacy.html.

## Definitions

This privacy policy uses the following terms:

* “We” (also “us” or “our”) are BeDataDriven B.V., having business at
  Binckhorstlaan 36, 2516 BE The Hague, Netherlands. We are listed in the
  Business Register of the Dutch Chamber of Commerce with number 61548278.
* “The website” is the collection of web pages publicly accessible via https://www.renjin.org and its subdomains (e.g. http://docs.renjin.org).
* “You” (also “your”) are a visitor to the website.

## Which data we store and why

When you visit the website, we store data in your browser and on our
servers. This section details which data we store and why we store this data.

We use cookies to track your usage of the website and the platform,
see the "Cookies" section below for more details on which cookies we use.

When you subscribe to our Newsletter we collect your name, email and organization type in order to offer you customized and relevant updates and marketing material regarding Renjin. By subscribing to our Newsletter, you agree that BeDataDriven may collect and use the personal data you provided for sharing marketing material and other updates regarding Renjin that you agree to receive, in accordance with our Privacy Policy. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails, via the Unsubscribe option provided by Mailchimp. We will treat your information with respect.

We use Mailchimp as our marketing platform. By subscribing to our Newsletter, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to Mailchimp for processing. Learn more about [Mailchimp's privacy practices](https://mailchimp.com/legal/)

## Where we store your data

The platform runs on infrastructure provided as part of the Google Cloud
Platform. This infrastructure, which includes servers, databases
and file storage, is supported by data center locations around the world.
We have opted to process and store your data exclusively on
Google’s data centers located within the European Union.
See https://www.google.com/about/datacenters/inside/locations/
for a full list of data center locations.

## How we protect your data

In general we observe and test against the guidelines provided by
the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). A full list of
guidelines for a variety of topics related to security can be
found at https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets.

## Cookies
When you visit the website you consent to us placing cookies in your
browser. We keep the number of cookies which we store to an absolute
minimum and we do not store third-party cookies.

We use Google Analytics to track the number of visitors to the website.
We use this information to understand how the website
are used with the goal to improve its usability and performance.

Google Analytics stores two cookies in your browser to identify
you as a unique visitor to the website. This information is non-personal
and we have opted to anonymize your IP address before it is stored by
Google. The data which is obtained from your visits to our website
are not used by Google for any other purpose other than generating
visitor reports for us. We also do not use any of the advertising
features of Google Analytics therefore no data is shared with any
third party.
